# Data-Visualisation-Empowering-Business-with-Effective-Insights
This is a Virtual internship programme in which we will be using Excel, Power Bi and Microsoft Power Point for data cleaning, data analysing, data visualization and creating data insights to answer business related questions.
Introduction:
An online retail store has hired you as a consultant to review their data and provide insights that would be valuable to the CEO and CMO of the business. The business has been performing well and the management wants to analyse what the major contributing factors are to the revenue so they can strategically plan for next year.
The leadership is interested in viewing the metrics from both an operations and marketing perspective. Management also intends to expand the business and is interested in seeking guidance into areas that are performing well so they can keep a clear focus on what’s working. They would also like to view different metrics based on the demographic information that is available in the data.

Task 1:
You’ve been provided a dataset in the resources below to use as the basis for your exploration. Review this data, taking note of what information has been provided, what insights you can garner, and what is relevant to both the CEO and CMO respectively.
Create a set of four questions that you anticipate each business leader will ask and want to know the answers to. Make sure you differentiate your questions, as both the CEO and CMO view business decisions through different lenses.
Submit your eight questions in total (4 for the CEO and 4 for the CMO) in the text submission box below. 
(Answers are attached in the file)

Task 2:
Q1: The CEO of the retail store is interested to view the time series of the revenue data for the entire year. The CEO is interested in viewing the seasonal trends and wants to dig deeper into why these trends occur. This analysis will be helpful for the CEO to forecast for the next year. Which visual would most likely help the CEO analyse the data?
Ans: Line Chart
Q2: The CMO is interested in viewing the top 10 countries which are generating the highest revenue. Additionally, as a subcomponent, they would also like to see which products are contributing to the total revenue being generated by each country. Which visual would enable the CMO to view the revenue for each country and the breakdown by products on a single chart?
Ans: Stacked Bar Chart
Q3: The CEO of the online retail store wants to see how much average revenue is generated by each country. They are interested in viewing the following metrics on the visual Minimum value First quartile value Median value Third quartile value Maximum value. Which chart would you create to show the above metrics for the average revenue generated by each country?
Ans: Box Plot
Q4: The CMO of the online retail store wants to view the information on the top 10 customers by revenue. They are interested in a visual that shows the greatest revenue-generating customer at the start and gradually declines to the lower revenue-generating customers. The CMO wants to target the higher revenue-generating customers and ensure that they remain satisfied with their products. Which visual would help the CMO understand the data on revenue generated by the top 10 customers?
Ans: Column Chart
Q5: The CEO is looking to gain insights on the demand for their products. They want to look at all countries and see which regions have the greatest demand for their products. Once the CEO gets an idea of the regions that have high demand, they will initiate an expansion strategy which will allow the company to target these areas and generate more business from these regions. He wants to view the entire data on a single view without the need to scroll or hover over the data points to identify the demand. Which chart would be most useful to provide the CEO information on the demand in each region?
Ans: Map Chart


Task 3:

Q1: The CEO of the retail store is interested to view the time series of the revenue data for the year 2011 only. He would like to view granular data by looking into revenue for each month. The CEO is interested in viewing the seasonal trends and wants to dig deeper into why these trends occur. This analysis will be helpful for the CEO to forecast for the next year.
Q2: The CMO is interested in viewing the top 10 countries which are generating the highest revenue. Additionally, the CMO is also interested in viewing the quantity sold along with the revenue generated. The CMO does not want to have the United Kingdom in this visual.
Q3: The CMO of the online retail store wants to view the information on the top 10 customers by revenue. He is interested in a visual that shows the greatest revenue generating customer at the start and gradually declines to the lower revenue generating customers. The CMO wants to target the higher revenue generating customers and ensure that they remain satisfied with their products
Q4: The CEO is looking to gain insights on the demand for their products. He wants to look at all countries and see which regions have the greatest demand for their products. Once the CEO gets an idea of the regions that have high demand, he will initiate an expansion strategy which will allow the company to target these areas and generate more business from these regions. He wants to view the entire data on a single view without the need to scroll or hover over the data points to identify the demand. There is no need to show data for the United Kingdom as the CEO is more interested in viewing the countries that have expansion opportunities.






